Pre-Layout Timing Analysis and Importance of Good Clock Tree

Timing Modelling Using Delay Tables

Lab Steps To Convert Grid Information Into Track Information
    The input and output ports must lie at the intersection of the horizontal and vertical tracks
    The width and height of the standard cell must be odd multiples of the track's horizontal and vertical pitch respectively

Delay Tables
            The above image depicts to us how the enable pin affects the CLK propogation. 
            In case of AND gate, ONLY when the enable pin is equal to 1, the CLK propogates to Y. 
            Similarly, in case of OR gate, the CLK propogates to Y only when the enable pin is 0. 
            Whenever the enable pin is equal to 1, the CLK does not propogate and there is no short circuit power consumption. 
            Switching power consumption when such elemements are used is used in CLOCK TREE. This method is known as Clock Gating Technique.
We seen at level 2 that both buffers have identical delays due to equal transition times, load capacitances and buffers sizes. 

Timing Analysis With Ideal Clocks Using Open STA
    Setup Timing Analysis And Introduction to Flip-Flop Setup Time
        The setup timing analysis equation is = Θ < T - S

Introduction to Clock Jitter and Uncertainty
    CLK signals are sent to the device by the PLL (Phase Locked Loop). This clock source is expected to send clock signal at 0, T, 2T etc. 
     Realistic equation for setup time is = Θ < T - S - SU

Lab Steps to Configure OpenSTA for Post-Synth Timings Analysis
    single corner - which only uses the LIB_TYPICAL library which is the one used in pre-layout(pos-synthesis) STA
    multi corner - multicorner which uses LIB_SLOWEST(setup analysis, high temp low voltage),LIB_FASTEST(hold analysis, low temp high voltage), and LIB_TYPICAL libraries

Lab Steps to Optimize Synthesis to Reduce Setup Violations
    For reducing the negative slack obtained, we must focus on the large delays and try to reduce them. 
    Increases in delays are majorly caused by nets with big fanouts, which result in high load cap which causes high delay.

Clock Tree Synthesis TritonCTS and Signal Integrity
Clock Tree Routing and Buffering Using H-Tree Algorithm
    The CLK skew is essentially the difference in propogation delay of the CLK signal as it moves along various paths. 
        differences in wire lengths
        variations in signal routing paths
        variations in buffer delays
        other physical and environmental factors

Crosswalk and Clock Net Shielding
        Clock nets are critical nets in the design because clock tree is built is such a fashion that the skew is zero. 

Timing Analysis With Real Clocks Using Open STA
        combinational delay
        clock buffer delays
        hold time.

Lab Steps to Excecute OpenSTA With Right Timing Libraries and CTS Assignment
    Enter into OpenROAD using the openroad command.
    create the db file 
    read the def file from the CTS stage
    create the db through  write_db
    read the db, verilog files, library and sdc
    set the propogated clock 
    Check the timing
    
